# Python-Challenge

Module 03 Challenge: UWA/edx Data Analytics Bootcamp

Github repository at: https://github.com/RyanLJames1997/Python-Challenge

## Introduction

## Scope

This challenge will dive into the world of programming with **Python**. Furthermore, the concepts of **Python** coding will implemented to tackle a real-world situtation in **PyBank** and **PyPoll**.

### Goal - PyBank
The goal of **PyBank** is to create a Python script that analyses the financial records of a company.

Using the dataset [`budget_data.csv`], calculate the following:
1. Total number of months in the dataset
2. Net total amount of "Profit/Losses" over the period
3. Changes in "Profit/Losses" over the period, and the average of those changes
4. The greatest increase in profits (date and amount) over the period
5. The greatest decrease in profits (date and amount) over the period

### Goal - PyPoll
The goal of **PyPoll** is to create a Python script that analyses the election votes of a small, rural US town.

Using the dataset [`election_data.csv`], calculate the following:
1. Total number of votes cast
2. A complete list of candidates who received votes
3. The percentage of votes each candidate won
4. The total number of votes each candidate won
5. The winner of the election based on popular vote

### Dataset

The dataset was generated by the team at **edX Boot Camps LLC**

## Approach

1. Understand the contents of each dataset:
    - [`Mouse_metadata.csv'] contained `249` rows with columns: `['Mouse ID', 'Drug Regimen', 'Sex', 'Age_months', 'Weight (g)']`.
    - [`Study_results.csv`] contained `1893` rows with columns: `['Mouse ID', 'Timepoint', 'Tumor Volume (mm3)', 'Metastatic sites']`.
2. Merge the dataset, using `pd.merge()`, and identify duplicates, using Pandas `DataFrame.duplicated()`.
3. Remove mice with duplicated values, confirming the number by identifying unique `Mouse ID`, and create a cleaned DataFrame.

### Generate summary statistics
1. For each drug regimen, calculate the following statistcs: `mean`, `median`, `variance`, `standard deviation`, and `SEM` of the tumor volume.
2. Two methods that can be used:
    - Use `groupby()` for each statistic.
    - Use the aggregation method `agg()` using a single line of code.

### Create bar and pie charts
1. Create two bar charts using: Pandas `DataFrame.plot()` method, and Matplotlib's `pyplot` method.
    - Sort the values prior to plotting, with the highest number of observed timepoints first.
    - Add an appropriate title and labels to each plot.
2. Create two pie charts using: Pandas `DataFrame.plot()` method, and Matplotlib's `pyplot` method.
    - Sort the values prior to plotting to ensure the resulting plot matches the expected figure.
    - Add a label and annotate the percentage value in the correct pie slice.

### Calculate quartiles, find outliers, and create a box plot
1. Create a list of the four drug regimens of interest: `['Capomulin', 'Ramicane', 'Infubinol', 'Ceftamin']`.
2. Using a for-loop over the four treatments, isolate the data for each drug and append to the `tumor_data` list.
3. Within the for-loop, calculate the following:
    - Lower quartile, using `quantile(0.25)`
    - Upper quartile, using `quantile(0.75)`
    - Inter-quartile range (IQR), using `upper_quartile - lower_quartile`
    - Lower bounds, using `lower_quartile - (1.5*iqr)`
    - Upper bounds, using `upper_quartile + (1.5*iqr)`
4. Identify outliers using the calculated upper and lower bounds.
5. Display the IQR and outliers for each treatment group.

### Create a line and scatter plot
1. Line plot - Single mouse:
    - For a single mouse, isolate the `Tumor Volume (mm3)` and `Timepoint`.
    - Use the retrieved data to create a line plot.
2. Scatter plot - Capomulin regimen average tumor volume vs mouse weight:
    - For the `Capomulin` regimen, isolate `Mouse ID`, `Tumor Volume (mm3)`, and `Weight (g)`.
    - Use `groupby().mean()` over the retrieved data.
    - Use the derived data to create a scatter plot.

### Calculate correlation and regression
1. Correlation Coefficient
    - Use `st.pearsonr()` to calculate the correlation coefficient between the `groupby().mean()` DataFrame's `Weight (g)` and `Tumor Volume (mm3)`.
    - Print the result, rounded to 2 decimal places for readability.
2. Linear Regression Model
    - Use the `linregress()` function to calculate the regression attributes: `slope`, `intercept`, `rvalue`, `pvalue`, `stderr`.
    - Use the attributes to get the regression values using the slope equation: `x_values * slope + intercept`.
    - Overlay the regression line on the Capomulin regimen scatter plot.
